Update terminology to align with functionality (#127)
ietf-wg-ohai/oblivious-http: draft-ietf-ohai-ohttp.md

servers with additional certainty about the identity of clients in a similar
fashion.

> Use of an HTTP proxy or relay can provide a degree of protection against servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use of an HTTP proxy can provide a degree of protection against servers
```

Author: We need something like this to make it clear that relay is basically a proxy, but I'll accept this suggestion and make a further change below.

  carrying an encapsulated request body and forward these request bodies to
  a single oblivious encapsulation resource. See {{proxy-state}} for more
  information about the mapping between oblivious proxy and oblivious
  encapsulation resources.

This information allows the client to make a request of an oblivious target
resource with that resource having only a limited ability to correlate that
request with the client IP or other requests that the client might make to that
server.

~~~ aasvg
+---------+      +----------+      +---------------+      +----------+
| Client  |      | Proxy    |      | Encapsulation |      | Target   |
|         |      | Resource |      | Resource      |      | Resource |
+----+----+      +----+-----+      +-------+-------+      +----+-----+
     |                |                    |                   |
     | Proxy          |                    |                   |
     | Request        |                    |                   |
     | [+ Encrypted   |                    |                   |
     |    Request ]   |                    |                   |
     +--------------->| Encapsulated       |                   |

>      |                | Request            |                   |

Author: To clarify, what do you mean when you say it's also encapsulated, and why is that an important detail?

>      |                | Request            |                   |

Reviewer: It's a word thing.  "Encapsulated" is a label you apply to something that has been put in a capsule.  The capsule and the thing it contains then becomes an encapsulation.  You don't encapsulate the capsule (except recursively, by putting into a larger capsule).

In this case, the request that was encrypted is the thing that has been encapsulated.  The thing you are calling the "Encapsulated Request" is a wrapper or encapsulation, it isn't encapsulated.  The outer request is maybe encapsulating (-ing), but that seems wrong for some reason too.

We generally don't have names for a container and their contents.  Which is what makes this hard.  A briefcase containing papers is just a briefcase.  A bus containing passengers is a bus.  A safe containing a valuable item is a safe.  A bathroom stall is still a bathroom stall, even when it is occupied.  But in all cases, the containing thing is not defined by its contents in quite the same way as we might like here.

>      |                | Request            |                   |

Author: Maybe instead of Encapsulated Request we call it a Proxied Request? The proxy would then take Proxy Requests as input and output Proxied Requests. 

I would prefer to keep the Encapsulation Resource name for now, as that's at least more precise than Request Resource. 

Thoughts?

>      |                | Request            |                   |

Reviewer: But all of the requests are proxied, so it isn't very descriptive.  And I don't think that Encapsulation is better (it's not worse) than Request.

Thought: which of the requests are "oblivious"?  Could the outer one be oblivious?

>      |                | Request            |                   |

Author: Note that the client's request to the proxy in this proposal is a "proxy request," as in, "a request to have something proxied", whereas the proxy's request to the target is a "proxied request," as in, "a request that has _been_ proxied." This distinction seems pretty clear to me.

>      |                | Request            |                   |

Author: > Thought: which of the requests are "oblivious"?  Could the outer one be oblivious?

The problem with this question is that it's not specific to _which_ request. Is it the client to proxy request or the proxy to target request? I think we need different names for these two things.

>      |                | Request            |                   |

Author: Resolving based on latest email thread. Thanks for working through this!

A client must initially know the following:

* The identity of an Oblivious Gateway Resource.  This might include some

>   information about what oblivious target resources the Oblivious Gateway

Reviewer 2: does `oblivious target resources` here need capitalization?

>   resource supports.

Reviewer: Let's talk capiTaLiZaTiOn.

I was fairly uniform in terms of not being overly Germanic.  These are not proper nouns, just names.  But you seem to have taken the opposite approach.

I prefer all lowercase, but I don't object to lending the names a little pomp and grandeur either.

You missed a s/resource/Resource here, that's all.

Author: Good catch -- fixed.

* The details of an HPKE public key that the Oblivious Gateway Resource
  accepts, including an identifier for that key and the HPKE algorithms that
  are used with that key.

* The identity of an Oblivious Relay Resource that will accept relay requests
  carrying an encapsulated request as its content and forward the content in
  these requests to a single Oblivious Gateway Resource. See {{proxy-state}}

>   for more information about the mapping between Oblivious Relay and oblivious
>   encapsulation resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  for more information about the mapping between Oblivious Relay and Oblivious
  Gateway Resources.
```

Maybe even

```suggestion
  for more information about the mapping between Oblivious Relay and Gateway
  Resources.
```

This information allows the client to make a request of an oblivious target

> resource with that resource having only a limited ability to correlate that

Reviewer: Title Case Here As Well Perhaps?

request with the client IP or other requests that the client might make to that
server.

~~~ aasvg
+---------+       +----------+      +----------+      +----------+
| Client  |       | Relay    |      | Gateway  |      | Target   |
|         |       | Resource |      | Resource |      | Resource |
+----+----+       +----+-----+      +-------+--+      +----+-----+
     |                 |                    |              |
     | Relay           |                    |              |
     | Request         |                    |              |

>      | [+ Encapsulated |                    |              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     | [+ Encrypted    |                    |              |
```

Author: I kept Encapsulated here since that's the term we use to describe the Relay Request's content.

     |    Request ]    |                    |              |
     +---------------->| Gateway            |              |
     |                 | Request            |              |

>      |                 | [+ Encapsulated    |              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     |                 | [+ Encrypted       |              |
```

     |                 |    Request ]       |              |
     |                 +------------------->| Request      |
     |                 |                    +------------->|
     |                 |                    |              |
     |                 |                    |     Response |
     |                 |            Gateway |<-------------+
     |                 |           Response |              |

>      |                 |    [+ Encapsulated |              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     |                 |       [+ Encrypted |              |
```

     |                 |         Response ] |              |
     |           Relay |<-------------------+              |
     |        Response |                    |              |

>      | [+ Encapsulated |                    |              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     |    [+ Encrypted |                    |              |
```

like those involved with connection setup, can be amortized, but there are
several ways in which oblivious HTTP is more expensive than a direct request:

> * Each Oblivious Gateway requires at least two regular HTTP requests, which adds

Reviewer 2: is this correct? My understanding of the old text was comparing an "end-to-end request" (a request from client to target) with just a normal HTTP request operation. 

Maybe I was wrong before and the intent was to talk about the Gateway. But saying the Gateway requires two requests doesn't seem seem right either.

> * Each Oblivious Gateway requires at least two regular HTTP requests, which adds

Author: Good catch! This change is wrong. The original text is right.

> * Each Oblivious Gateway requires at least two regular HTTP requests, which adds

Author: ```suggestion
* Each oblivious request requires at least two regular HTTP requests, which adds
```

: An HTTP response that is encapsulated in an HPKE-encrypted message; see
  {{response}}.

Proxy Request:

> : An HTTP request that contains an encapsulated request as its body.

Reviewer 2: encapsulated or encrypted?

  logically handles only regular HTTP requests and responses and so might be
  ignorant of the use of oblivious HTTP to reach it.

Relay Request:

> : An HTTP request from Client to Relay that contains an encapsulated request as its body.

Reviewer 2: Let's use content instead of body here and subsequent defs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: An HTTP request from Client to Relay that contains an encapsulated request as the content.
```

Author: @LPardue applied this series of fixes

Oblivious Relay Resource and the Oblivious Target Resource.  For the request the
clients makes to the Oblivious Target Resource, this diverges from typical HTTP
assumptions about the use of a connection (see {{Section 3.3 of HTTP}}) in that
the request and response are encrypted rather than sent over a connection.
The Oblivious Relay Resource and the Oblivious Gateway Resource also act as HTTP
clients toward the Oblivious Gateway Resource and Oblivious Target Resource
respectively.

The Oblivious Relay Resource interacts with the Oblivious Gateway Resource as an
HTTP client by constructing a request using the same restrictions as the client
request, except that the target URI is the Oblivious Gateway Resource.  The
content of this request is copied from the client.  The Oblivious Relay Resource
MUST NOT add information to the request without the client being aware of
the type of information that might be added; see
{{relay-responsibilities}} for more information on relay responsibilities.

When a response is received from the Oblivious Gateway Resource, the
Oblivious Relay Resource forwards the response according to the rules of an
HTTP proxy; see {{Section 7.6 of HTTP}}.

> An Oblivious Gateway Resource, if it receives any response from the oblivious
> target resource, sends a single 200 response containing the encapsulated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Oblivious Gateway Resource, if it receives any response from the Oblivious
Target Resource, sends a single 200 response containing the encapsulated
```

## Resource Mappings {#proxy-state}

This protocol assumes a fixed, one-to-one mapping between the Oblivious Proxy

> Resource and the Oblivious Encapsulation Resource. This means that any encapsulated

Reviewer 2: tangent(?): why are these instances capitalized and others aren't?

Author: That's a bug that we should fix separately 👍
